---
title: Catching My Breath
layout: default
path: catching-my-breath
icon: icon.jpg
---
{% include post-title.html %}

The past week has been a blur. 3 assignments, 2 lab reports, 2 midterms, 30+ hours of labs + lectures + tutorials and 4 job interviews. I guess that’s engineering for you. As I sit here on this 8 hour bus ride, I finally have the chance to recollect my thoughts. All I can say is that I hope that I’m not the only one in my class that feels pretty overwhelmed right now.

It’s been quite the change in terms of lecture atmosphere from 1A to now. We started as a class of about 150 with a few dozen eager beavers that would sprint into the lecture rooms as soon as the classrooms became available in order to occupy the entire middle section of the lecture halls. Back then, you had to arrive at least 5 minutes early to get a decent seat. Now, you can arrive 5 minutes late and pick almost any seat you want. I’m not kidding when I say that less than half the class is showing up for certain lectures and the professors are starting to notice the trend.

Those who don’t show up to class don’t really affect me. In fact, the number of comments and interruptions have decreased severely and the professors can actually get through the material that they want to get down in a day. I’m fine with students asking questions. But when they tell the professor that the way they are doing things isn’t optimal and you can use some other method that is much more advance than the scope of this first year course, it bugs me.

Anyways, I understand why students aren’t showing up as often. Those who do show up look very drowsy and definitely aren’t able to focus their complete attention on the professor during lecture. My friends like to take pictures of people sleeping in class and we now have a growing collection of “NapSnaps”. You can’t really blame the snoozers for catching some shut eye since our lecture rooms are terrible. Every CS class is on the third floor of the freaking Optometry building. This off campus building has a white board that is really low relative to the majority of the seats and always smells stuffy. The incredibly comfy chairs and dim lights add to the already difficult challenge of staying awake in that class.

MC 2066 used to be gross with all of the slush all over the floor and the cramp leg room but now with all the empty seats, your bag doesn’t need to be sitting in a puddle of dirt and snow. It still has some weird ventilation though that makes the back of the class really cold and the front really warm but it’s more tolerable now.

We just had our CS 138 midterm (Introduction to Data Abstraction and Implementation) and I believe that I pretty well. There were a few tricks here and there but the questions weren’t too difficult. Even though that class is taught mainly through powerpoints and a little bit of stack diagrams on the whiteboards, I still found it very interesting. So far, we’ve learned about Stacks, Queues and variations of these abstract data types and will soon be starting trees and eventually Object Oriented Programming. The assignments are a pain in the butt since the formatting of the output is so strict with very little instruction. The testing server doesn’t tell you what you did wrong. It’s just 100% right or 100% wrong so it’s up to you to figure out what it wants as the output. I’ve lost good chunks of my weekends ripping my hair out for these assignments. On the bright side, I’ve learned how to use basic debugging techniques via gdb which has sped up testing a lot.

I get really excited solving CS problems but you’ll never see me having a mathgasm. Both MATH 119 (Calculus 2) and MATH 135 (Proofs) have had really tedious assignments. They are challenging, long and relentless. As soon as you finish one, another one replaces it. We’re told by profs and upper years to devote time each day to study for each subject but it’s pretty hard to do so with the onslaught of assignments and labs. I’m debating about not doing some of the assignment questions as these 9+ question assignments are each worth 1% of your final grade whereas a single question on a final or midterm could be worth 2-3%. I’m currently devoting far too much time into these assignments instead of focusing on understanding the core material. I’m pretty sure I did poorly on the MATH 135 midterm and it was due to a bad choice of prioritizing the calculus assignment and interview preparation over studying more for the midterm. Just because it isn’t an engineering only course doesn’t mean it’s easy. Proofs take practice. And I didn’t practice enough. I definitely won’t make that mistake again for finals.

Our digital logic midterm was split into two 10% quizzes with the first one being last week. It was very straight forward and pretty simple. The second quiz however will be much tougher. Next up are physics and calculus right after reading week. Oh boy, do I have a lot of catching up to do for these courses. ECE 106 used to be the second half of the famous “ECE 126 Electrodeath” course. With the first half being the course I took in 1A “ECE 140 Linear Circuits”. Luckily, they split the courses into 2 but we still have to get through part 2 sooner or later. Now our professor has promised us that we won’t have any a)-i) multiple choice questions but it seems like there are still going to be some ridiculous questions. I’ve had a tough time following along with this class and will definitely be consulting Dad for that one. I’ve successfully done all the calc assignments but that is with my notes and khan academy right beside. I’ll definitely need more practice to be able to write the midterm without these resources by my side.

Lastly, I’ve finally discovered the Software Engineering Lab. It’s a pretty big room that only software engineering students have access to (all disciplines have one I believe) with computers, tables, chairs and WHITEBOARDS! Studying for CS was great as we could just verbally quiz each other by giving some sample code and drawing the memory models on the boards. And when we got them wrong, the upper years were very helpful in explaining what we did wrong. It’s like having personal TA’s! I think that I’m going to continue going there when I get back from reading week as I’ve felt pretty productive. In your room, you can get distracted by roommates or the internet. In the library, you can get stuck, and waste hours trying to solve a simple problem. But in the lab, you, and a bunch of other classmates are in an environment where your goal is to finish what you had planned and get out of there as fast as you can. I’ve been gotten through my daily work goals since going there.

These were pretty random topics… After reading week and my last two midterms, I’ll probably write a more specific post about my first co-op interview cycle.

{% include post-navigation.html %}